Clearing is an operation to target and engage MCA to eliminate or neutralize it from a network or system. Cyber Warfare Publication (CWP) 3-33.4:

Clear is normally used relative to the removal of barriers or obstacles in mobility operations or the deconfliction of targets for engagement. In the context of CPT operations, clear is defined as an operation to target and engage MCA in order to eliminate or neutralize it from a network or system, and may include actions to interdict, contain, disrupt, or degrade MCA. The CPT clear function occurs when the supported or supporting commander directs the CPT to eliminate or neutralize the identified threat on the network or system. CPTs may also be directed to take other actions against identified threats rather than clearing them.
Supporting commander is ultimately responsible for the system/network

According to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800.61r2, the IR lifecycle consists of four phases.
	Preparation
	Detection and Analysis
	Containment, 
	Eradication, and Recovery
	Post-incident Activity

Contain affected systems and networks simultaneously to prevent adversary repositioning.
Neutralize and eradicate adversary activities in each network or system
Observe and characterize adversary behavior and Tactics, 
Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) to enable follow-on operations (i.e., enable hardening)
Enable recovery or restoration of affected systems and networks

A variety of tools and techniques are employed, such as monitoring software, log and error message aggregation, querying platforms, and security systems (e.g., Network Security Monitors [NSM], firewalls, and Intrusion Detection Systems [IDS]). 

	After detection has confirmed a likely incident, the system should be contained for further investigation and remediation. Containment limits the extent of any damage a breach may have already initiated, such as data exfiltration or damage to production systems. 
	Containment isolates a known compromise. If the adversarial actors have proceeded no further than the affected systems, the remainder of the network is protected. When this affects production servers, backup plans need to be initiated in parallel with network containment. 

A new PowerShell script was found. An innocuous profile script related to the default PowerShell configurations was also found. Opening this file in Notepad shows that it also contains a script to call back to the malicious IP address. It also has a creation time and date in close proximity to the other malicious script. It appears that the threat actors added innocuous padding to the file to prevent its signature from being identical to the first, but analysis of the code reveals that it accomplishes the same intent.

Mission Relevant Terrain in Cyberspace (MRT-C) and Key Terrain in Cyberspace (KT-C) are an especially important focus during the hardening phase. MRT-C and KT-C will be determined during mission planning.
"(FOUO) The end state of the hardening function is to mitigate risk of adversary exploitation, or reduce it to levels acceptable to network or system owners." CWP 3.33-4

Guidelines are recommendations on a course of action to best meet specified requirements. NIST has developed several guidelines in their Special Publications (SP), which lay out best practices for several processes. There are several SPs that a CDA may find useful while hardening within the SP 800 series including, but not limited to:
	SP 800-53: Catalog of security and privacy controls for federal information systems  
	SP 800-40: Relates to patch managementSP 
	800-41: Relates to firewall configurationSP 
	800-123: Relates to central server security

CPTs issue or provide input to the following reports after hardening a mission partner network (from CWP 3.33-4):
	Detailed Host Vulnerability Finding and Corrective Actions Report: Covers patch management and outdated software vulnerabilities, services, and detailed vulnerability scanner results (e.g., results from Assured Compliance Assessment Solution [ACAS] and misconfigurations).
	Detailed Network Vulnerability Findings and Corrective Actions Report: Covers at least the following elements, if applicable — proper sensor placement, signature management, firewall implementation, firmware vulnerabilities, ports/protocols, access control lists, or infrastructure configurations. 
	Detailed Non-Technical Vulnerability Findings and Corrective Actions Report: Covers policy assessment from NIST SP 800-53 and mission partners utilizing intelligence to inform DCO.
	Risk Mitigation Plan (RMP): Documents all vulnerabilities identified during threat mitigation. This document includes recommendations for internal and external mitigation actions to reduce the overall risk to the secured network. This is further discussed in upcoming lessons.

Consult the NIST SP 800 series for guidelines and best practices for these devices as well as STIGs to ensure that systems and network devices meet security baselines. Once you understand the mission partner's operational cyberspace, recommend changes. The goal is to:
	Propose network architecture changes to improve security and reduce riskEnsure unnecessary services are disabledEnsure latest patches are installedRemediate insecure configurationsAudit installed softwareEnforce an audit policyEnhance security systems and logging

Source and destination Network Address Translation (NAT) are implemented. While the NAT’s primary purpose is not meant to be security, it has the added benefit of preventing internet devices from initiating connections with internal hosts, which greatly reduces the attack surface. 

Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) and SSH are enabled. Remote administration is possible. The SNMP protocol should be disabled, if not in use, as it allows attackers to read configuration settings and gain various other information from the device. If not actively used, then extra services should be disabled. The mission partner mentioned administrators using SNMP to gather metrics on routing devices, and using SSH to remotely manage their devices.

The router is logging events, but only locally. If the mission partner wants to be able to easily detect scanning and mapping activities, then enable remote logging. As this is the only device with an interface and a public IP in the network, most scanning happens here.

Get-WmiObject Win32_Product | Select-Object Name, Version

PowerShell is a powerful object-oriented scripting language tightly integrated into Windows OSs 

Learn the assess function as it relates to the core Cyber Protection Team (CPT) functions and how it relates to the assess mission, as well as a tactical assessment within the CPT Operations Process (OP). Utilize Measures of Effectiveness (MOE) and Measures of Performance (MOP) to perform a tactical assessment, and develop a report that publishes their findings on mission effectiveness. The lesson concludes by writing detailed tactical reports including a timeline of compromise.

As per CWP 3.33-4, the goal of assessing is to conduct Cyber Threat Emulation (CTE). CTE assesses the current security posture by emulating known adversary Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) to validate the current defensive measures. CTE is outside the scope of this course.
	MOPs determine whether operational tasks were satisfied to create the desired effect.
	MOEs determine whether the desired effect achieved operational objectives.
More concisely, MOPs track progress towards creating the desired effect, and MOEs evaluate if that desired effect achieved operational objectives. MOEs can be considered as bullets and MOPs can be considered sub-bullets.

While the CPT OP focuses on mission at an operational level, CPTs do not function at an operational level during day-to-day tasks. They do function at a tactical level however. When the Operational Control (OPCON) Headquarters (HQS) Operational Planning element provides operational level MOEs and MOPs, the CPT will use them by converting them into tactical level MOEs and MOPs. This involves turning operational level MOPs into tactical level MOEs, and developing new tactical MOPs that would correspond to the MOEs. The new tactical level MOEs and MOPs will be used by the CPT to conduct tactical assessments during and after the mission execution phase.
DMZ has web servers

Mission Statement: The CPT conducts proactive Defensive Cyberspace Operations (DCO) and Incident Response (IR) in support of counter-APT28 operations throughout SACOM networks in order to prevent enemy forces from gaining a foothold in critical SACOM systems.

End State: Deny APT28 from access into SACOM networks with local network defenders capable of preventing future incidents. SACOM networks are secure and fully functional.
From this scenario, at an operational level, the MOEs are defined as the following (derived from the end state): 
	No compromises associated with APT28 TTPs within SACOM networks
	Implement countermeasures to prevent further intrusions in SACOM networks
	Disseminate findings to local network defenders and other DoD organizations
	
Consider tactical output from mission execution:
	-Situational Reports (SITREP): SITREPs are routinely generated to provide updates to higher elements on a daily, weekly, per-phase, or on request.
	-Tactical Assessments: Tactical assessments are low-level assessments that often contain their own MOEs and MOPs
	-OPNOTEs: OPNOTEs are in-depth and technical about the events that occur during mission execution. However, OPNOTEs contain very specific timestamps and events rather than a high-level summary. When more detail 	than a high-level summary is needed, consult the OPNOTEs.
* Go into mando volo to understand the MOP/MOE information from M3L4
	
While working on a tactical assessment of MOE/MOP completion, the main concern was the documentation that supports the report body. There are various documents that can go in the report body, but remember that mission execution results in large amounts of data. Select documentation that appropriately supports the written narrative
	-Logs: Log entries often support the conclusion that an intrusion occurred.
	-Configurations: Configurations shed light on vulnerabilities from bad configurations. If a weakness in configuration exists, then including the configuration can support the report body.
	-Command output: Was something noticeable only because a specific command was run? For example, was there malware initiating a connection to the internet reflected in Network Statistics (netstat) output?
	-Screenshots: At times, include a screenshot instead of text as there may be a visual elements to the data (e.g., Kibana dashboards).
	-File inventory: Since binary files are not well represented in text, rather than including the binary file output, include a list of files that came up during the mission, their file hashes, and where to find the file. Files to inventory include packet captures, malware, images, and memory snapshots.

Files from CDA1 to include in the file inventory:
egg.exe, if it existedbackdoor.exepacket captures containing the intrusions, if they exist

Based on the scenario outlined in Measures of Effectiveness and Performance, populate the Assessment Summary, Report Body, and Recommendations and Mitigations sections of the assessment report for tactical MOE 3. Follow this workflow:
Create a timeline of events relevant to the MOE being assessedCreate the Report Body from the timelineDetermine if the CPT successfully achieved their MOEs/MOPsComplete the Recommendations and Mitigations appropriately based on the CPT’s performance.Write the Assessment Summary to evaluate the CPT’s performance.Save the assessment report











	
